Now we've seen if statements before in the javascript section of the course so I won't labor them too
much here.
But there are some slight differences in THP which we'll look at right now.
So it ph pay to run an if statement as I say it's pretty similar to javascript.
We start off with f and we put the statement that we want to check whether or not it's true.
In brackets.
And then we put our code up we want to happen if it is true in curly brackets as we used to say for
example we might have a use a variable which for this particular use that might be equal to rob.
And then we might have a check to see if they use a variable is equal to.
And remember to check whether something is equal to something else just as in javascript's we use double
equals rather than one equals which will set it equal to.
The other thing which is not what we want.
So if it is equal to Rob we can say hello.
Rob and then just like with javascript we can have an else statement as well which does something in
the case that this is not true.
And we might have something like I don't know you if this app only deals with me.
So let's have a look.
So there we go.
Hello Rob.
And then we change it to the user and the I don't know you.
So pretty straightforward really.
As a little challenge for you can you create an if else statement based around this age variable which
checks whether someone is 18 or older.
And if it does says something like You may proceed.
And if it doesn't tell them that they're too young for it
co-writes see how I repeated it.
So we're checking to see if the user is older or equal to 18.
So I would use something like that.
We could also have older than 17 but I think older are equal to 18 makes it clear what's going on here.
And then if that's the case will display.
You may proceed.
If it's not
we'll say you're too young.
Sorry.
And we'll just put in a couple of line breaks as well.
Separate things out.
And I've made a mistake but my error message makes it very clear what's going on.
I've just forgotten my syndicate on that today.
So excellent with an age of 25.
You may proceed with an age of 16.
You are too young.
Like with javascript we can compare two things at once.
And we use the same symbols for that.
So if you want to check for the use of being robbed and the age being greater than 18 we use double
ampersand and then user
equals Rob.
So obviously at the moment that won't work because neither of those are true.
If I make one of them true then that's still not good for both of them to be true.
That gets us in.
We can also have an all or operator which again just javascript and a number of other programming languages
is a double pipe which for me is a shift and backslash character.
So again it still works then but this time and is allowed in as long as he is old enough but if neither
of those are true then we can't get him.
And that's about it.
If statements are hugely powerful and we'll be using them throughout our programming as we're making
more advanced webapps apps the basics of how they work are pretty simple.
Great.
So now it's time to move on and look at the other major programming construct that can affect the flow
of our code and that is the loop.